so I've got enough question here about
just in live chat on you know I've
gotten a question about people basically
living a lie long term here on YouTube
including notably my old friend and
current frenemy the vegan cheetah so
this person was at first incredulous
they find difficult to believe that
cheetah is is lying intentionally when
he insists that he's telling the truth
or that insisting that he doesn't know
any better that he's just sharing the
information he has so was asked well how
do I know for a fact that he's lying and
they give examples of situations where I
know that he knows something for example
I know for a fact he had seen a certain
photograph because I gave him that
photograph in the past and he's
pretending he's never seen a photograph
of that thing or that person or that
situation he's pretending it's a matter
of speculation and he's engaging in
defaming me or defaming other people no
I do also know what other examples other
situations with other vegans on the
internet not just from my own life or my
my own examples so then the follow-up
question came well you she said it's
just hard to believe that someone would
be persistently lying over such a long
period of time I started to answer so I
do I don't know how old this person is
you know she could be 70 years old she
could be 17 on the internet you don't
know it's just a name it's an anonymous
commenter here um and I had to say back
well my experience in life it's easy to
be okay so she just answered she's 21
that's cool I was 21 once don't worry
buddy but you know I'm not I'm not
insulting I just say I think this is
something that you learn from hard
experience in life I have experience
seeing people really living a lie really
delivering a lie with conviction again
and again over many years in religion
organized religion in politics for
example communism even in petty
small-town politics you know what I mean
like you know local corruption in the
mayor's office or something that's a
side of human nature not everyone's
familiar with it's a side of human
nature i can say you don't learn about
from watching movies or TV and no shade
i just say like cinema is good at
rehearsing certain types of moral
problems certain types of situations but
others just don't reduce not cinematic
they just
make it into that medium we're not part
of our education when we're watching
Sesame Street Norman we're watching all
kinds you know dramas as adults in TV
and cinema but yes i can say that not
only are people capable of living a lie
in that way and delivering a lie with
passion and conviction again and again
over many years I've seen it in so many
different walks of life I've seen it
when people have a financial incentive
but I've also seen it when people have
no financial center fat all because as
soon as the lie becomes attached to
their own ego to their own sense of
identity to their own sense of dignity
then it becomes rewarding as an end in
itself to deliver that lie again and
again and again and in one example that
was striking to me was meeting a white
man in Cambodia a white french man who
was making excuses for mass murder under
Pol Pot in the Khmer Rouge she was
supporting the most notorious communists
in the history of the world caught like
other communist communist from Russia
regard Pol Pot as insane and terrible
here was a white man he's not Cambodian
he didn't grow up in Cambodia making
statements in fever of mass murder
basically nobody's paying him there's no
financial incentive there's no reward
but at some point that gets attached to
his ego and it becomes rewarding in and
of itself now different strokes for
different folks right I said a long time
ago back when cheetah was a friend of
mine you know um money sex fame these
are powerful motivating forces here on
the internet in politics generally right
but another one the fourth one is power
some people lie just for the feeling of
power wine to have power over other
people and if I tell you the truth I may
not feel that I have any power don't
maybe just be sharing information with
you as simple as that but if I lie to
you and I know that I'm lying to you for
many people there's an ego trip just in
that there's a
feeling of power even if the lie is
meaningless even doesn't change your
behavior doesn't have any outcomes I
don't make any money from it but if I
lie to you and I know that I'm lying and
you don't know that I'm lying already
that's a dynamic situation of power I'm
ellipse I'm manipulating you whether you
know it or not I manipulating you
whether there are any outcomes are not
whether or not i benefit from it and
many many people you see it in a
religion you see it in politics they
will lie for the sake of the law itself
because the act of lying to you is
powerful it is a form of power